docs/getting-started/core-concepts.mdx, before:

---
title: "Concepts"
description: "Understanding superglue fundamentals"
---

The core idea of superglue is to let users connect their systems via a natural language interface that abstracts away the pain of authentication, structuring requests and mapping data between systems. This page explains key concepts - integrations, tools and self-healing - that are the essential building blocks of everything superglue does.

## <svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" width="25" height="25" viewBox="0 0 25 25" fill="none" stroke="currentColor" strokeWidth="2" strokeLinecap="round" strokeLinejoin="round" className="inline-block mr-2 mb-1"><rect width="7" height="7" x="14" y="3" rx="1"/><path d="M10 21V8a1 1 0 0 0-1-1H4a1 1 0 0 0-1 1v12a1 1 0 0 0 1 1h12a1 1 0 0 0 1-1v-5a1 1 0 0 0-1-1H3"/></svg> Integrations

The superglue concept for all systems superglue supports is called **integrations**. Within superglue, an integration is any system that can provide, store or process data.

We want to emphasize that an integration can be **any system** with an API - REST, GraphQL, SOAP - **but also** an FTP/SFTP server or a Postgres database. This is a conscious choice. Instead of having a connector library and only supporting a fixed number of integrations, we purposefully take a more generalizable approach. This means that users can build and configure **any integration** with custom documentation, custom URLs, custom authentication and specific instructions tailored to their use case.
Think of integrations as **reusable building blocks** that store all context required to work with a system. To find out more about the many different ways to create integrations on superglue, check the [integrations guide](/guides/creating-an-integration).

## <svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" width="25" height="25" viewBox="0 0 25 25" fill="none" stroke="currentColor" strokeWidth="2" strokeLinecap="round" strokeLinejoin="round" className="inline-block mr-2 mb-1"><path d="m15 12-8.373 8.373a1 1 0 1 1-3-3L12 9"/><path d="m18 15 4-4"/><path d="m21.5 11.5-1.914-1.914A2 2 0 0 1 19 8.172V7l-2.26-2.26a6 6 0 0 0-4.202-1.756L9 2.96l.92.82A6.18 6.18 0 0 1 12 8.4V10l2 2h1.172a2 2 0 0 1 1.414.586L18.5 14.5"/></svg> Tools

superglue is an AI-powered **tool builder** that builds on top of a user's integrations. Tools are built according to user instructions and execute **sequentially**. Every tool takes a number of (optional) inputs, executes a series of tool steps and returns an output.
Tool inputs can include the integrations that this tool will use, a payload of tool variables (e.g. a timestamp, a user ID or something similar) or files.
Tools will **execute deterministically** once they are saved, but are built and auto-evaluated using large language models. For more details on tool building, please check out our [tool guide](guides/creating-a-tool).

<Note>
    In some places in the [client SDK](sdk/overview) and documentation we may still be referring to **workflows**, which is the now **deprecated** legacy naming for tools. For all intents and purposes, the two phrases **refer to the same** concept.
</Note>


## <svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" width="25" height="25" viewBox="0 0 25 25" fill="none" stroke="currentColor" strokeWidth="2" strokeLinecap="round" strokeLinejoin="round" className="inline-block mr-2 mb-1"><path d="m21.64 3.64-1.28-1.28a1.21 1.21 0 0 0-1.72 0L2.36 18.64a1.21 1.21 0 0 0 0 1.72l1.28 1.28a1.2 1.2 0 0 0 1.72 0L21.64 5.36a1.2 1.2 0 0 0 0-1.72"/><path d="m14 7 3 3"/><path d="M5 6v4"/><path d="M19 14v4"/><path d="M10 2v2"/><path d="M7 8H3"/><path d="M21 16h-4"/><path d="M11 3H9"/></svg> Self-Healing

Self-healing is a functionality within superglue that **auto-repairs broken tools.** A tool built by superglue can contain broken or misconfigured steps if user instructions are inaccurate, the documentation is incomplete, or the build agent is missing context.

When executing a built tool, superglue has an auto-repair mode that lets it "self-heal" broken tool steps **during execution**. Enabling this mode will re-generate individual tool steps to fix issues like deprecated endpoints, misconfigured authentication, inaccurate use of query params, or data mapping errors. Self-healing takes place **at workflow step level** and uses generated step instructions for guidance. Self-healing is only invoked if a step fails to execute successfully. Self-healing can be enabled anytime you execute a tool, but makes execution **non-deterministic**.

Commit message:

Chore/rename integrations to systems (#560)
* bulk rename

* pre-commit

* rename cleanups

* bulk rename

* pre-commit

* linting

* cleanups

docs/getting-started/core-concepts.mdx, after:

---
title: "Concepts"
description: "Understanding superglue fundamentals"
---

The core idea of superglue is to let users connect their systems via a natural language interface that abstracts away the pain of authentication, structuring requests and mapping data between systems. This page explains key concepts - systems, tools and self-healing - that are the essential building blocks of everything superglue does.

## <svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" width="25" height="25" viewBox="0 0 25 25" fill="none" stroke="currentColor" strokeWidth="2" strokeLinecap="round" strokeLinejoin="round" className="inline-block mr-2 mb-1"><rect width="7" height="7" x="14" y="3" rx="1"/><path d="M10 21V8a1 1 0 0 0-1-1H4a1 1 0 0 0-1 1v12a1 1 0 0 0 1 1h12a1 1 0 0 0 1-1v-5a1 1 0 0 0-1-1H3"/></svg> Systems

Systems are the reusable building blocks for tools in superglue. A system represents anything that can provide, store, or process data: REST APIs, GraphQL endpoints, SOAP services, SFTP servers, Postgres databases and more.

Instead of maintaining a limited connector library, superglue takes a more general approach. Users can configure any system with custom documentation, URLs, authentication, and instructions tailored to their use case. Think of systems as containers that store all context required to interact with an external service. To learn more about creating systems, check the [systems guide](/guides/creating-a-system).

## <svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" width="25" height="25" viewBox="0 0 25 25" fill="none" stroke="currentColor" strokeWidth="2" strokeLinecap="round" strokeLinejoin="round" className="inline-block mr-2 mb-1"><path d="m15 12-8.373 8.373a1 1 0 1 1-3-3L12 9"/><path d="m18 15 4-4"/><path d="m21.5 11.5-1.914-1.914A2 2 0 0 1 19 8.172V7l-2.26-2.26a6 6 0 0 0-4.202-1.756L9 2.96l.92.82A6.18 6.18 0 0 1 12 8.4V10l2 2h1.172a2 2 0 0 1 1.414.586L18.5 14.5"/></svg> Tools

superglue is an AI-powered **tool builder** that builds on top of a user's systems. Tools are built according to user instructions and execute **sequentially**. Every tool takes a number of (optional) inputs, executes a series of tool steps and returns an output.
Tool inputs can include the systems that this tool will use, a payload of tool variables (e.g. a timestamp, a user ID or something similar) or files.
Tools will **execute deterministically** once they are saved, but are built and auto-evaluated using large language models. For more details on tool building, please check out our [tool guide](guides/creating-a-tool).

<Note>
    In some places in the [client SDK](sdk/overview) and documentation we may still be referring to **workflows**, which is the now **deprecated** legacy naming for tools. For all intents and purposes, the two phrases **refer to the same** concept.
</Note>


## <svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" width="25" height="25" viewBox="0 0 25 25" fill="none" stroke="currentColor" strokeWidth="2" strokeLinecap="round" strokeLinejoin="round" className="inline-block mr-2 mb-1"><path d="m21.64 3.64-1.28-1.28a1.21 1.21 0 0 0-1.72 0L2.36 18.64a1.21 1.21 0 0 0 0 1.72l1.28 1.28a1.2 1.2 0 0 0 1.72 0L21.64 5.36a1.2 1.2 0 0 0 0-1.72"/><path d="m14 7 3 3"/><path d="M5 6v4"/><path d="M19 14v4"/><path d="M10 2v2"/><path d="M7 8H3"/><path d="M21 16h-4"/><path d="M11 3H9"/></svg> Self-Healing

Self-healing is a functionality within superglue that **auto-repairs broken tools.** A tool built by superglue can contain broken or misconfigured steps if user instructions are inaccurate, the documentation is incomplete, or the build agent is missing context.

When executing a built tool, superglue has an auto-repair mode that lets it "self-heal" broken tool steps **during execution**. Enabling this mode will re-generate individual tool steps to fix issues like deprecated endpoints, misconfigured authentication, inaccurate use of query params, or data mapping errors. Self-healing takes place **at workflow step level** and uses generated step instructions for guidance. Self-healing is only invoked if a step fails to execute successfully. Self-healing can be enabled anytime you execute a tool, but makes execution **non-deterministic**.
