docs/guides/debugging-a-tool.mdx, before:

---
title: "Debugging a Tool"
description: "Use the tool playground to debug your tool"
---

The tool playground is a developer-friendly interface for testing, debugging, and refining your tools. It provides granular control over execution and visibility into every step of your workflow.

## Tool Input

The playground starts with a **Tool Input** card where you define the data your tool will process.

<video autoPlay className="w-full rounded-lg">
  <source src="/resources/tool-input-demo.mp4" type="video/mp4" />
</video>

### Manual JSON Input

Enter JSON directly in the payload editor. The playground validates your input against the input schema (if defined) and highlights any validation errors.

```json
{
  "userId": "12345",
  "startDate": "2024-01-01"
}
```

If your tool has an input schema, the playground automatically generates a default payload as a starting point. You can edit this to match your test case.

### File Upload

Upload files to use as input data. The playground:

- Parses files automatically and adds them to your payload
- Shows file status (processing, ready, or error)
- Displays total file size
- Allows you to remove files

When you upload a file named `customers.csv`, it becomes available in your payload and subsequent steps as the `customers` variable.

### Schema Validation

The input card shows a red border if your payload doesn't match the input schema. Click "Run Anyway" to proceed despite validation errors, or fix your payload to match the schema requirements.

## Run All Steps

Click **Run All Steps** to execute your entire tool from start to finish. The playground:

- Executes steps sequentially
- Shows progress with a loading indicator on each step
- Marks completed steps with a green checkmark
- Marks failed steps with a red X
- Pauses before the next **critical** step and waits for your confirmation before continuing (for example, a step that writes data or makes changes in a third-party system)
- Navigates to the first failure or final output when done

Click **Stop Execution** to halt the run after the current step completes.

## Inspect a Step

### Step Input

<img
  src="../resources/step-input.png"
  alt="Step input"
  className="w-full rounded-lg mb-4"
/>

The **Step Input** section shows exactly what data flows into the step and how it is shaped:

- **Aggregated Step Input**: A merged JSON containing previous step results, original payload fields, and processed file data
- **Step Data Selector (JavaScript)**: a selector function that receives the aggregated input as `sourceData` and returns the slice of data this step should operate on.
- **Step Data**: the result of the selector and the exact data passed into the step (also available in config as `sourceData.currentItem`)

### Step Config

<img
  src="../resources/step-config.png"
  alt="Step output"
  className="w-full rounded-lg"
/>

The **Step Config** tab shows how this step calls the external system:

- **Step Instruction** – natural‑language description of what the step does and what the response should contain
- **Integration** – which integration is used to make the call (for example, `stripe`)
- **Safety badge** – a `Step modifies data on system` pill when the step performs write operations, so you can quickly spot calls that change external state
- **API Config** – HTTP method and URL for the request
- **Headers (JSON)** – JSON object with the request headers sent to the server (for example, the `Authorization` header)
- **Query Parameters** – JSON object with the query parameters appended to the request URL
- **Pagination** – controls how the step fetches multiple pages (strategy, page size, cursor/offset paths) or shows *No pagination* when pagination is disabled
- **Stop Condition (JavaScript)** – optional JavaScript function that inspects each `response` and pagination state to decide when to stop fetching more pages

### Step Result

<img
  src="../resources/step-output.png"
  alt="Step output"
  className="w-full rounded-lg"
/>

After execution, the **Output** section shows:

- Successful API responses
- Error messages (with full stack traces for debugging)
- Data structure returned by the step

Click on nested objects to expand and inspect their contents. Use this to verify your step is receiving and returning the expected data structure.

## Run or Fix a Step

### Run Step

Executes just this one step using the current configuration and previous step results. Use this to:

- Test changes to a single step without re-running the entire tool
- Debug a specific failure in isolation
- Verify your instruction changes work

### Fix Step

Opens a modal where you can refine the **step-specific instruction** and trigger an LLM-powered repair for this step. The modal provides two actions:

- **Fix Step & Execute** – uses the LLM to update the step configuration and immediately runs the step with the fixed version
- **Fix Step** – uses the LLM to update the step configuration but does not run it yet (you can execute it later with **Run Step**)

<video autoPlay className="w-full rounded-lg">
  <source src="/resources/fix-step.mp4" type="video/mp4" />
</video>

Use this when:

- A step is failing and you want the LLM to find and apply a fix
- You've made manual changes but they're not working as expected

<Note>
  A fixed step will update the step configuration in the view but will not save
  it. You need to publish the tool to persist changes.
</Note>

## Final Transform

The **Final Transform** card contains JavaScript code that shapes your raw step outputs into the final result structure.

### Edit Transform Code

The transform receives `sourceData` containing all step results:

```javascript
(sourceData) => {
  return {
    users: sourceData.step_1.map((user) => ({
      id: user.id,
      name: user.full_name,
      email: user.email_address,
    })),
    total: sourceData.step_1.length,
  };
};
```

### Test Transform

Click **Run Transform Code** to execute your transform code against the current step results. This shows:

- The final output structure
- Any JavaScript errors in your transform
- Whether the output matches your response schema (if defined)

The transform runs in a sandboxed environment with access to common utilities. If it fails, the error message shows the exact line and issue.

### Response Schema

Define a JSON schema to validate your final output structure. The playground highlights schema violations and prevents invalid outputs from being returned.

## Debugging Workflow

When a tool fails, follow this workflow:

1. **Check the failed step** - Look at the step marked with a red X
2. **Inspect the error** - Read the error message in the Output section
3. **Review the input** - Verify the step received the expected data
4. **Try Fix Step** - Let auto-repair suggest a configuration change
5. **Edit instruction** - Manually refine the step instruction if needed
6. **Run Step** - Test your changes on just this step
7. **Run All Steps** - Verify the entire tool works end-to-end

Commit message:

docs: add body to step config

docs/guides/debugging-a-tool.mdx, after:

---
title: "Debugging a Tool"
description: "Use the tool playground to debug your tool"
---

The tool playground is a developer-friendly interface for testing, debugging, and refining your tools. It provides granular control over execution and visibility into every step of your workflow.

## Tool Input

The playground starts with a **Tool Input** card where you define the data your tool will process.

<video autoPlay className="w-full rounded-lg">
  <source src="/resources/tool-input-demo.mp4" type="video/mp4" />
</video>

### Manual JSON Input

Enter JSON directly in the payload editor. The playground validates your input against the input schema (if defined) and highlights any validation errors.

```json
{
  "userId": "12345",
  "startDate": "2024-01-01"
}
```

If your tool has an input schema, the playground automatically generates a default payload as a starting point. You can edit this to match your test case.

### File Upload

Upload files to use as input data. The playground:

- Parses files automatically and adds them to your payload
- Shows file status (processing, ready, or error)
- Displays total file size
- Allows you to remove files

When you upload a file named `customers.csv`, it becomes available in your payload and subsequent steps as the `customers` variable.

### Schema Validation

The input card shows a red border if your payload doesn't match the input schema. Click "Run Anyway" to proceed despite validation errors, or fix your payload to match the schema requirements.

## Run All Steps

Click **Run All Steps** to execute your entire tool from start to finish. The playground:

- Executes steps sequentially
- Shows progress with a loading indicator on each step
- Marks completed steps with a green checkmark
- Marks failed steps with a red X
- Pauses before the next **critical** step and waits for your confirmation before continuing (for example, a step that writes data or makes changes in a third-party system)
- Navigates to the first failure or final output when done

Click **Stop Execution** to halt the run after the current step completes.

## Inspect a Step

### Step Input

<img
  src="../resources/step-input.png"
  alt="Step input"
  className="w-full rounded-lg mb-4"
/>

The **Step Input** section shows exactly what data flows into the step and how it is shaped:

- **Aggregated Step Input**: A merged JSON containing previous step results, original payload fields, and processed file data
- **Step Data Selector (JavaScript)**: a selector function that receives the aggregated input as `sourceData` and returns the slice of data this step should operate on.
- **Step Data**: the result of the selector and the exact data passed into the step (also available in config as `sourceData.currentItem`)

### Step Config

<img
  src="../resources/step-config.png"
  alt="Step output"
  className="w-full rounded-lg"
/>

The **Step Config** tab shows how this step calls the external system:

- **Step Instruction** – natural‑language description of what the step does and what the response should contain
- **Integration** – which integration is used to make the call
- **Safety badge** – a `Step modifies data on system` pill when the step performs write operations, so you can quickly spot calls that change external state
- **API Config** – HTTP method and URL for the request
- **Headers (JSON)** – JSON object with the request headers sent to the server (for example, the `Authorization` header)
- **Query Parameters** – JSON object with the query parameters appended to the request URL
- **Body** – Request body content, which can be JSON, form data, plain text, or any format
- **Pagination** – controls how the step fetches multiple pages (strategy, page size, cursor/offset paths) or shows *No pagination* when pagination is disabled
- **Stop Condition (JavaScript)** – optional JavaScript function that inspects each `response` and pagination state to decide when to stop fetching more pages

### Step Result

<img
  src="../resources/step-output.png"
  alt="Step output"
  className="w-full rounded-lg"
/>

After execution, the **Output** section shows:

- Successful API responses
- Error messages (with full stack traces for debugging)
- Data structure returned by the step

Click on nested objects to expand and inspect their contents. Use this to verify your step is receiving and returning the expected data structure.

## Run or Fix a Step

### Run Step

Executes just this one step using the current configuration and previous step results. Use this to:

- Test changes to a single step without re-running the entire tool
- Debug a specific failure in isolation
- Verify your instruction changes work

### Fix Step

Opens a modal where you can refine the **step-specific instruction** and trigger an LLM-powered repair for this step. The modal provides two actions:

- **Fix Step & Execute** – uses the LLM to update the step configuration and immediately runs the step with the fixed version
- **Fix Step** – uses the LLM to update the step configuration but does not run it yet (you can execute it later with **Run Step**)

<video autoPlay className="w-full rounded-lg">
  <source src="/resources/fix-step.mp4" type="video/mp4" />
</video>

Use this when:

- A step is failing and you want the LLM to find and apply a fix
- You've made manual changes but they're not working as expected

<Note>
  A fixed step will update the step configuration in the view but will not save
  it. You need to publish the tool to persist changes.
</Note>

## Final Transform

The **Final Transform** card contains JavaScript code that shapes your raw step outputs into the final result structure.

### Edit Transform Code

The transform receives `sourceData` containing all step results:

```javascript
(sourceData) => {
  return {
    users: sourceData.step_1.map((user) => ({
      id: user.id,
      name: user.full_name,
      email: user.email_address,
    })),
    total: sourceData.step_1.length,
  };
};
```

### Test Transform

Click **Run Transform Code** to execute your transform code against the current step results. This shows:

- The final output structure
- Any JavaScript errors in your transform
- Whether the output matches your response schema (if defined)

The transform runs in a sandboxed environment with access to common utilities. If it fails, the error message shows the exact line and issue.

### Response Schema

Define a JSON schema to validate your final output structure. The playground highlights schema violations and prevents invalid outputs from being returned.

## Debugging Workflow

When a tool fails, follow this workflow:

1. **Check the failed step** - Look at the step marked with a red X
2. **Inspect the error** - Read the error message in the Output section
3. **Review the input** - Verify the step received the expected data
4. **Try Fix Step** - Let auto-repair suggest a configuration change
5. **Edit instruction** - Manually refine the step instruction if needed
6. **Run Step** - Test your changes on just this step
7. **Run All Steps** - Verify the entire tool works end-to-end
