docs/guides/using-template-expressions.mdx, before:

---
title: "Using Template Expressions"
description: "Understand how template expressions work across integrations, tools, and steps."
---

Most of the time you don't have to write template expressions yourself—the agent generates them for you. Still, understanding how they work helps when you're debugging or tweaking a tool.

At their core, template expressions use the `<<expression>>` pattern, where `expression` is evaluated at runtime.

## Where template expressions are used

The same template engine is used across superglue:

- **Integrations** – connection strings and URL templates
- **Step configuration** – `urlHost`, `urlPath`, `headers`, `queryParams`, `body`
- **Transforms** – final transforms and data selectors

## Template expression modes

There are two kinds of template expressions: **simple expressions** and **arrow function expressions**.

### Simple expressions (legacy)

Simple expressions resolve values directly from the context (payload, credentials, previous step results) without any JavaScript.

Syntax:

- `<<variable>>`
- `<<variable.key>>` for nested fields

**Examples:**

In the context of a tool step:

```typescript
headers: {
  "Authorization": "Bearer <<stripe_apiKey>>"
},
queryParams: {
  user_id: "<<userId>>"
}
```

or in an integration:

```text
postgres://<<username>>:<<password>>@<<host>>:<<port>>/<<database>>
```

### Arrow function expressions (recommended)

Arrow function expressions use JavaScript arrow functions that receive the context as a single parameter (typically named `sourceData`) and return the value to insert. superglue runs these functions in a sandboxed JavaScript VM.

```js
<<(sourceData) => {
  // read from sourceData and return the value to insert
}>>
```

<Note>
  Arrow function expressions are also used in places that are pure code (for example, the
  `finalTransform` field), where you don’t wrap them in `<< >>`. They still receive the same
  `sourceData` context object and behave the same way.
</Note>

**Examples:**

```typescript
headers: {
  "Authorization": "<<(sourceData) => `Bearer ${sourceData.credentials.apiKey}`>>"
}
```

```typescript
body: {
  posts: "<<(sourceData) => {
    const fromJsonPlaceholder =
      (sourceData.fetchJsonPlaceholderPosts ?? []).map(p => ({
        id: p.id,
        title: p.title,
        source: 'jsonplaceholder'
      }));

    const fromDummyJson =
      (sourceData.fetchDummyJsonPosts?.posts ?? []).map(p => ({
        id: p.id,
        title: p.title,
        source: 'dummyjson'
      }));

    return [...fromJsonPlaceholder, ...fromDummyJson];
  }>>"
}
```

## Template context

Template expressions evaluate against a **context object** that depends on where they're used (step config, integration, or transform).

- **Arrow function expressions** – context is passed as the function parameter (typically `sourceData`)
- **Simple expressions** – the string inside `<< >>` is resolved against the same context object

The context looks different depending on where the expression is used:

### Integration context

The context is built from the integration credentials (for example, `username`, `password`, `access_token`).

The `sourceData` might look like this:

```json
{
  "username": "db_user",
  "password": "secret123",
  "host": "db.example.com",
  "port": "5432",
  "database": "production"
}
```

<Note>
  Integration templates are only resolved at tool execution time and get merged
  with tool-specific credentials.
</Note>

### Tool step context

The context is the **aggregated step input**, which includes:

- `payload` – workflow input payload
- `credentials` – resolved credentials for the integration
- Previous step results keyed by step ID (for example, `getCustomers`)
- `currentItem` – current iteration data when the step runs in a loop

The `sourceData` object might look like this:

```json
{
  "payload": { "userId": "12345", "startDate": "2024-01-01" },
  "credentials": { "apiKey": "sk_test_..." },
  "getCustomers": {
    "data": [{ "id": "cus_123", "email": "user@example.com" }]
  }
}
```

### Pagination variables

When pagination is configured on a step, the following variables are available in the request configuration (`urlPath`, `queryParams`, `headers`, `body`):

| Variable   | Description                                          |
| ---------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| `page`     | Current page number (starts at 1)                    |
| `offset`   | Current offset (starts at 0, increments by pageSize) |
| `cursor`   | Cursor value extracted from the previous response    |
| `limit`    | Same as pageSize                                     |
| `pageSize` | The configured page size                             |

**Examples:**

Page-based pagination:

```typescript
queryParams: {
  "page": "<<page>>",
  "per_page": "<<limit>>"
}
```

Offset-based pagination:

```typescript
queryParams: {
  "offset": "<<offset>>",
  "limit": "<<limit>>"
}
```

Cursor-based pagination:

```typescript
queryParams: {
  "cursor": "<<cursor>>",
  "limit": "<<pageSize>>"
}
```

### Stop condition

The stop condition is a JavaScript function that determines when to stop fetching pages. It receives two arguments:

1. **`response`** – object containing:
   - `data` – the parsed response body
   - `headers` – response headers

2. **`pageInfo`** – object containing:
   - `page` – current page number
   - `offset` – current offset
   - `cursor` – current cursor value
   - `totalFetched` – total number of items fetched so far

The function should return `true` to **stop** pagination, or `false` to continue.

**Examples:**

Stop when no more pages (using response metadata):

```javascript
(response, pageInfo) => !response.data.has_more;
```

Stop when data array is empty:

```javascript
(response, pageInfo) => response.data.items.length === 0;
```

Stop when cursor is null or missing:

```javascript
(response, pageInfo) => !response.data.next_cursor;
```

Stop after fetching a specific number of items:

```javascript
(response, pageInfo) => pageInfo.totalFetched >= 1000;
```

Stop when on last page (from total pages header):

```javascript
(response, pageInfo) =>
  pageInfo.page >= parseInt(response.headers["x-total-pages"] || "1");
```

Combine multiple conditions:

```javascript
(response, pageInfo) => {
  const items = response.data.results || [];
  return (
    items.length === 0 || !response.data.next || pageInfo.totalFetched >= 5000
  );
};
```

### Final transform context

The context is a combined view of the entire workflow execution:

- All step results keyed by step ID
- The original `payload`

The `sourceData` object might look like this:

```json
{
  "payload": { "userId": "12345" },
  "getCustomers": {
    "data": [{ "id": "cus_123", "email": "user@example.com" }]
  },
  "createPaymentIntent": {
    "data": { "id": "pi_456", "status": "succeeded" }
  }
}
```

Commit message:

Chore/rename integrations to systems (#560)
* bulk rename

* pre-commit

* rename cleanups

* bulk rename

* pre-commit

* linting

* cleanups

docs/guides/using-template-expressions.mdx, after:

---
title: "Using Template Expressions"
description: "Understand how template expressions work across systems, tools, and steps."
---

Most of the time you don't have to write template expressions yourself—the agent generates them for you. Still, understanding how they work helps when you're debugging or tweaking a tool.

At their core, template expressions use the `<<expression>>` pattern, where `expression` is evaluated at runtime.

## Where template expressions are used

The same template engine is used across superglue:

- **Systems** – connection strings and URL templates
- **Step configuration** – `urlHost`, `urlPath`, `headers`, `queryParams`, `body`
- **Transforms** – final transforms and data selectors

## Template expression modes

There are two kinds of template expressions: **simple expressions** and **arrow function expressions**.

### Simple expressions (legacy)

Simple expressions resolve values directly from the context (payload, credentials, previous step results) without any JavaScript.

Syntax:

- `<<variable>>`
- `<<variable.key>>` for nested fields

**Examples:**

In the context of a tool step:

```typescript
headers: {
  "Authorization": "Bearer <<stripe_apiKey>>"
},
queryParams: {
  user_id: "<<userId>>"
}
```

or in a system:

```text
postgres://<<username>>:<<password>>@<<host>>:<<port>>/<<database>>
```

### Arrow function expressions (recommended)

Arrow function expressions use JavaScript arrow functions that receive the context as a single parameter (typically named `sourceData`) and return the value to insert. superglue runs these functions in a sandboxed JavaScript VM.

```js
<<(sourceData) => {
  // read from sourceData and return the value to insert
}>>
```

<Note>
  Arrow function expressions are also used in places that are pure code (for example, the
  `finalTransform` field), where you don’t wrap them in `<< >>`. They still receive the same
  `sourceData` context object and behave the same way.
</Note>

**Examples:**

```typescript
headers: {
  "Authorization": "<<(sourceData) => `Bearer ${sourceData.credentials.apiKey}`>>"
}
```

```typescript
body: {
  posts: "<<(sourceData) => {
    const fromJsonPlaceholder =
      (sourceData.fetchJsonPlaceholderPosts ?? []).map(p => ({
        id: p.id,
        title: p.title,
        source: 'jsonplaceholder'
      }));

    const fromDummyJson =
      (sourceData.fetchDummyJsonPosts?.posts ?? []).map(p => ({
        id: p.id,
        title: p.title,
        source: 'dummyjson'
      }));

    return [...fromJsonPlaceholder, ...fromDummyJson];
  }>>"
}
```

## Template context

Template expressions evaluate against a **context object** that depends on where they're used (step config, system, or transform).

- **Arrow function expressions** – context is passed as the function parameter (typically `sourceData`)
- **Simple expressions** – the string inside `<< >>` is resolved against the same context object

The context looks different depending on where the expression is used:

### System context

The context is built from the system credentials (for example, `username`, `password`, `access_token`).

The `sourceData` might look like this:

```json
{
  "username": "db_user",
  "password": "secret123",
  "host": "db.example.com",
  "port": "5432",
  "database": "production"
}
```

<Note>
  System templates are only resolved at tool execution time and get merged
  with tool-specific credentials.
</Note>

### Tool step context

The context is the **aggregated step input**, which includes:

- `payload` – workflow input payload
- `credentials` – resolved credentials for the system
- Previous step results keyed by step ID (for example, `getCustomers`)
- `currentItem` – current iteration data when the step runs in a loop

The `sourceData` object might look like this:

```json
{
  "payload": { "userId": "12345", "startDate": "2024-01-01" },
  "credentials": { "apiKey": "sk_test_..." },
  "getCustomers": {
    "data": [{ "id": "cus_123", "email": "user@example.com" }]
  }
}
```

### Pagination variables

When pagination is configured on a step, the following variables are available in the request configuration (`urlPath`, `queryParams`, `headers`, `body`):

| Variable   | Description                                          |
| ---------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| `page`     | Current page number (starts at 1)                    |
| `offset`   | Current offset (starts at 0, increments by pageSize) |
| `cursor`   | Cursor value extracted from the previous response    |
| `limit`    | Same as pageSize                                     |
| `pageSize` | The configured page size                             |

**Examples:**

Page-based pagination:

```typescript
queryParams: {
  "page": "<<page>>",
  "per_page": "<<limit>>"
}
```

Offset-based pagination:

```typescript
queryParams: {
  "offset": "<<offset>>",
  "limit": "<<limit>>"
}
```

Cursor-based pagination:

```typescript
queryParams: {
  "cursor": "<<cursor>>",
  "limit": "<<pageSize>>"
}
```

### Stop condition

The stop condition is a JavaScript function that determines when to stop fetching pages. It receives two arguments:

1. **`response`** – object containing:
   - `data` – the parsed response body
   - `headers` – response headers

2. **`pageInfo`** – object containing:
   - `page` – current page number
   - `offset` – current offset
   - `cursor` – current cursor value
   - `totalFetched` – total number of items fetched so far

The function should return `true` to **stop** pagination, or `false` to continue.

**Examples:**

Stop when no more pages (using response metadata):

```javascript
(response, pageInfo) => !response.data.has_more;
```

Stop when data array is empty:

```javascript
(response, pageInfo) => response.data.items.length === 0;
```

Stop when cursor is null or missing:

```javascript
(response, pageInfo) => !response.data.next_cursor;
```

Stop after fetching a specific number of items:

```javascript
(response, pageInfo) => pageInfo.totalFetched >= 1000;
```

Stop when on last page (from total pages header):

```javascript
(response, pageInfo) =>
  pageInfo.page >= parseInt(response.headers["x-total-pages"] || "1");
```

Combine multiple conditions:

```javascript
(response, pageInfo) => {
  const items = response.data.results || [];
  return (
    items.length === 0 || !response.data.next || pageInfo.totalFetched >= 5000
  );
};
```

### Final transform context

The context is a combined view of the entire workflow execution:

- All step results keyed by step ID
- The original `payload`

The `sourceData` object might look like this:

```json
{
  "payload": { "userId": "12345" },
  "getCustomers": {
    "data": [{ "id": "cus_123", "email": "user@example.com" }]
  },
  "createPaymentIntent": {
    "data": { "id": "pi_456", "status": "succeeded" }
  }
}
```
